Powered by the FDA’s prescription drug database, BabySafe RX gives expectant and breastfeeding mothers the facts they need to help make informed decisions when taking prescription medications during pregnancy.   The application represents one 9-day sprint of research, design and development effort using user-centered design and agile development processes to create an MVP product release that addresses unmet user needs and that user testing shows is a usable and valuable web application.             
ECCO Select follows a user-centered design approach to ensure that the application is designed to meet real user needs and is usable by the primary target audience.    
User Research – To get quick results, the ECCO team launched an online survey targeting pregnant and breastfeeding mothers.  More than 90 surveys were completed.  Survey results were followed by user interviews to more deeply understand the target audience’s concerns and their goals when seeking information about safety concerns when taking prescription drugs while pregnant or breastfeeding.  Research revealed these key findings:  
1) Users are most likely to search by the name of the prescription drug in question, and secondarily by medical condition.  
2) Pregnant women trust the FDA as a source of credible information.  
3) Users have found other online resources difficult to understand due to their jargon-heavy content with regard to pharmaceutical and medical language and labeling.  
4) The vast majority of users desire to find answers via the internet but have been unable to locate a single, credible but easy-to-understand source to meet their needs.  
Rapid low-fidelity prototyping - With knowledge of users’ goals and an understanding of their mental model, the team moved into rapid low-fidelity prototyping using Axure to explore interaction design, workflow, navigation and content.  The team designed a responsive UI for three separate screen size break points: desktop (1200), tablet (768) and mobile (320).  Design reviews with internal stakeholders provided feedback to refine the prototype before user testing.            
User testing – Within days of beginning the process, the team conducted 1:1 task-based usability testing with pregnant women using the Axure clickable prototype. Testing was conducted on desktop and mobile views.  Data from task success/failure, and user feedback produced these key findings: 
 1) Users were not certain about the risk-level based on the rating scale used in the prototype. (Design modified to use color-coding and clearer labeling for high, medium and low risk levels.) 
2) In mobile view, drug ingredients were prioritized in the visual hierarchy but to users that was the least important data.   (Design modified to de-prioritize ingredients and prioritize usage and risks while pregnant or nursing.)     
3) Validated initial research that users search first by drug name and secondarily by condition (Condition search was de-prioritized to next sprint.)   
(NOTE: A second round of user testing was conducted after development was completed using the v1 application.  Test results were documented and enhancements for the next sprint were prioritized although these modifications are not included in the MVP.)       
Visual design – After finalizing interaction design and functionality for the v1 sprint, the team explored visual design and branding through Style Tiles.   Visual and interaction design style guides explored important visual design and branding anchors including logo, color palette, fonts, and layout grid for the responsive site.  Interaction and visual style guides were generated for development teams to follow.  
Front-end development – Following interaction design and visual design style guidelines, the front-end developers build the UI to meet functional and design specifications.   The UI is coded in Foundation, an open source, mobile-first, semantic code based on 12-column grid system.  The site uses HTML, CSS and Javascript on top of the Foundation framework.         
